*****************************************************************
*** Welcome to the world of fractal flames!
*****************************************************************

Let's start at the very basics: what is a fractal? A fractal is a 
mathematical construct, first and foremost. But most people call 
the visual representation of said mathematical construct 
"fractal" as well. A fractal image is usually entirely computer 
generated and are the key to combine mathematics with art.

One class of fractals are so called iterated function systems. 
Simply expressed, these fractals workby taking a simple shape and
copying it onto itself into theoretical infinity. The most 
prominent example is the sierpinski gasket. The shape, in this 
case, would be a triangle. If you now extend this concept into a 
general context, you understand how an iterated function system
works.

In classic iterated function systems, transformations during 
copying a shape are affine. This means simplified: only move, 
rotate, scale and skew transformations are allowed. Fractal 
flames now generalize even further and also allow the combination 
of affine transformations with any non-linear function. This 
would mean that you don't limit yourself to moving, rotating, 
scaling and skewing a shape before copying it but also allow any 
mathematical function to be applied on the shape to further 
distort the resulting copy.

With this gain of complexity combined with a natural coloring 
algorithm, fractal flame artists achieve the typical organic look 
of their works.

*****************************************************************
*** Creating and working with fractal flames using Apophysis 7x
*****************************************************************

Originally, fractal flames were introduced by Scott Draves in 
1992, it has become one of the most popular classes of fractals, 
widely used by artists all around the world.

Over time, Draves' open-source fractal flame implementation made 
its way over several branches and re-implementations. One 
particular implementation is based on a screensaver written in 
Delphi. Later on, a user interface has been added to allow 
editing. This user interface received the name Apophysis.

Due to the fact that in late 2009, the development of Apophysis 
stalled, a fork has been created based on the last stable version 
of Apophysis. This fork has received the name "7x" (for 
"Windows 7 extended") with the idea of modernizing the almost 
10-year old software. Over time, Apophysis 7x included more 
improvements and additions to the original Apophysis and became 
the mainly used software to work with fractal flames.

The ambition of Apophysis 7x today is to follow the tradition of 
Apophysis and to provide a simple, newbie-friendly user interface 
on top of the powerful fractal flame algorithm. While the 
original Apophysis was developed for older computers, Apophysis 
7x tries to keep up with the technological development of modern 
machines and tries to make the transistion from a tool to a 
professional software fit to be used in artwork studios.

While undergoing these changes, the Apophysis 7x strictly adheres 
the original philosophy of Apophysis: a free, open-source 
software to create fractal art for personal use, to share in a 
community or to use in professional designs and publications 
under the same royalty-free license policy.

*****************************************************************
*** Improvements against the original version of Apophysis
*****************************************************************

64-bit support:         Apophysis 7x supports the latest 
                        processor generations by adding 64 bit 
                        support to the base program and allowing 
                        you to render fractal images with extreme 
                        resolutions at improved performance.
Translations:           An international community needs an 
                        international program to ease the 
                        learning curve and allow non-english 
                        speakers to use the program to its full 
                        degree leaving language barriers behind.
Direct coloring:        Apophysis 7x allows extension developers 
                        to obtain direct control of the color of 
                        each point to introduce whole new levels 
                        of creative possibilities from classic 
                        mandelbrot fractals to the import of 
                        images.
Detail improvements:    From performance improvements to UI 
                        shortcuts: Apophysis 7x features hundrets 
                        of little and small changes against the 
                        base program taking the worries about the 
                        technicalities of the creation process.

*****************************************************************
*** System requirements
*****************************************************************

Apophysis 7x is derived from a really old software. Therefore, 
the requirements to run it are really low. It scales to a 
stronger system so the more powerful your hardware, the better. 
The below data is collected from many tests and a big collection 
of community feedback and it should guide you well if you 
consider acquiring hardware for Apophysis 7x.

Processor:          Since Apophysis 7x takes advantage of 
                    multicore processors, it is recommended to 
                    have a quad-core processor of the Intel i7 
                    family in your case. It will start with a 
                    dual- or single-core but to achieve 
                    reasonable performance, at least four cores 
                    are recommended.
Memory (RAM):       If your use-case is to render fractal images 
                    for print products, you should go with at 
                    least 8 GiB of system memory. Please keep in 
                    mind, that, in order to work with more than 
                    4 GiB of system memory in general, you need 
                    a 64-bit processor and operating system as 
                    well.
GPU / screen:       Apophysis 7x uses the core processor for all 
                    calculations. Therefore, any recent 
                    low-end graphics card will fulfill your needs 
                    in regard of fractal imaging. To use 
                    Apophysis 7x optimally, you should work with 
                    a full-HD screen resolution, however. Even 
                    better are multiple screens.
Operating system:   Apophysis 7x is designed for Microsoft 
                    Windows. It is possible to run the software 
                    on MacOS and Linux systems but it will most 
                    likely come with a notable performance 
                    decrease. To use Apophysis 7x optimally, you 
                    should at least run Microsoft Windows 7 or 
                    WINE 1.2 under MacOS X or Linux.